README.md, before:

# Installing Knative Serving in Air-Gapped Environments

This guide describes how to install Knative Serving with Kourier ingress in an air-gapped environment for use with NVIDIA Run:ai inference workloads.

## Prerequisites

- An internet-connected machine for downloading images and charts
- Access to a private container registry in your air-gapped environment
- `podman` CLI
- `helm` CLI (v3.14+)
- `kubectl` CLI configured to access your air-gapped cluster
- Kubernetes cluster meeting [Run:ai system requirements](../system-requirements.md)

## Supported Versions

NVIDIA Run:ai supports Knative versions **1.11 to 1.18**. This guide uses version **1.18** as the reference.

## Files in this Directory

| File | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `pull-images.sh` | Script to pull and save Knative images (run on internet-connected machine) |
| `push-images.sh` | Script to load and push images to private registry (run in air-gapped environment) |
| `knative-serving.yaml` | KnativeServing CR configured for private registry |

---

## Step 1: Download Knative Helm Chart (Internet-Connected Machine)

On a machine with internet access, download the Knative Operator Helm chart:

```bash
# Set the Knative version
export KNATIVE_VERSION=1.18.0

# Add the Knative Operator Helm repository
helm repo add knative-operator https://knative.github.io/operator
helm repo update

# Download the chart to a local directory
helm pull knative-operator/knative-operator --version ${KNATIVE_VERSION} --destination ./knative-charts/
```

This will create `./knative-charts/knative-operator-${KNATIVE_VERSION}.tgz`.

---

## Step 2: Pull and Save Images (Internet-Connected Machine)

Use the provided script to pull all required images and save them as tar archives:

```bash
chmod +x pull-images.sh
./pull-images.sh
```

See [pull-images.sh](./pull-images.sh) for the list of images.

---

## Step 3: Transfer Artifacts to Air-Gapped Environment

Transfer the following to your air-gapped environment:

1. `knative-charts/knative-operator-${KNATIVE_VERSION}.tgz` - Helm chart
2. `knative-images/knative-images.tar` - Container images
3. `push-images.sh` - Script to push images to private registry
4. `knative-serving.yaml` - KnativeServing CR

---

## Step 4: Load and Push Images to Private Registry

Edit `push-images.sh` to set your `PRIVATE_REGISTRY` URL, then run:

```bash
chmod +x push-images.sh
./push-images.sh
```

See [push-images.sh](./push-images.sh) for details.

---

## Step 5: Install Knative Operator with Private Registry

Create the `knative-operator` namespace:

```bash
kubectl create ns knative-operator
```

Create the image pull secret for the private registry:

```bash
kubectl create secret docker-registry knative-registry-creds \
    --namespace knative-operator \
    --docker-server=<PRIVATE_REGISTRY> \
    --docker-username=<your-username> \
    --docker-password=<your-password>
```

Install the Knative Operator using the downloaded Helm chart and override the image registry:

```bash
# Set your private registry
export PRIVATE_REGISTRY="your-private-registry.example.com"

# Set version
export KNATIVE_VERSION="1.18.0"

# Install Knative Operator
helm install knative-operator ./knative-charts/knative-operator-${KNATIVE_VERSION}.tgz \
    --namespace knative-operator \
    --set knative_operator.knative_operator.image=${PRIVATE_REGISTRY}/knative/operator \
    --set knative_operator.knative_operator.tag=v${KNATIVE_VERSION} \
    --set knative_operator.operator_webhook.image=${PRIVATE_REGISTRY}/knative/operator-webhook \
    --set knative_operator.operator_webhook.tag=v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
```

Immediately after installation, patch the ServiceAccounts to include the image pull secret:

```bash
for sa in default knative-operator operator-webhook; do
    kubectl patch serviceaccount ${sa} -n knative-operator \
        -p '{"imagePullSecrets": [{"name": "knative-registry-creds"}]}'
done
```

Restart deployments:

```bash
kubectl -n knative-operator rollout restart deploy
```

Verify the operator is running:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n knative-operator
```

---

## Step 6: Create KnativeServing with Private Registry

Create the `knative-serving` namespace:

```bash
kubectl create ns knative-serving
```

Create the image pull secret for the private registry:

```bash
kubectl create secret docker-registry knative-registry-creds \
    --namespace knative-serving \
    --docker-server=<PRIVATE_REGISTRY> \
    --docker-username=<your-username> \
    --docker-password=<your-password>
```

Edit `knative-serving.yaml` to replace `<PRIVATE_REGISTRY>` with your private registry URL, then apply:

```bash
kubectl apply -f knative-serving.yaml
```

Patch the ServiceAccounts to use the image pull secret (the CR setting doesn't propagate to pods):

```bash
# Patch all ServiceAccounts in knative-serving namespace
for sa in activator controller default net-kourier; do
    kubectl patch serviceaccount ${sa} -n knative-serving \
        -p '{"imagePullSecrets": [{"name": "knative-registry-creds"}]}'
done
```

Restart the deployments to pick up the changes:

```bash
kubectl rollout restart deployment -n knative-serving
```

---

## Step 7: Verify Installation

Check that all Knative Serving pods are running:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n knative-serving
```

Expected output (all pods should be `Running`):

```
NAME                                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
activator-xxxxxxxxxx-xxxxx                1/1     Running   0          2m
autoscaler-xxxxxxxxxx-xxxxx               1/1     Running   0          2m
controller-xxxxxxxxxx-xxxxx               1/1     Running   0          2m
net-kourier-controller-xxxxxxxxxx-xxxxx   1/1     Running   0          2m
webhook-xxxxxxxxxx-xxxxx                  1/1     Running   0          2m
3scale-kourier-gateway-xxxxxxxxxx-xxxxx   1/1     Running   0          2m
```

Verify Kourier service:

```bash
kubectl get svc -n knative-serving kourier
```

---

## Image Reference

Knative Serving requires the following container images. Replace `${KNATIVE_VERSION}` with your target version (e.g., `1.18.0`):

### Knative Operator Images

> **Note:** The operator webhook (`operator/cmd/webhook`) is different from the serving webhook (`serving/cmd/webhook`). Push the operator webhook to a separate path like `knative/operator-webhook` to avoid conflicts.

```bash
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/operator/cmd/operator:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/operator/cmd/webhook:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
```

### Knative Serving Core Images

```bash
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/serving/cmd/activator:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/serving/cmd/autoscaler:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/serving/cmd/controller:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/serving/cmd/webhook:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/serving/cmd/queue:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
```

### Kourier Ingress Images

```bash
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/net-kourier/cmd/kourier:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy:v1.34-latest
```

### Post-Install Job Images

```bash
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/pkg/apiextensions/storageversion/cmd/migrate:latest
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/serving/pkg/cleanup/cmd/cleanup:latest
```

### Optional: HPA Autoscaler Images (for custom metrics)

```bash
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/serving/cmd/autoscaler-hpa:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
```

Commit message:

Enhance image management scripts to support both podman and docker. Updated user prompts and error handling for container utility selection. Modified README for clarity on prerequisites and usage instructions.

README.md, after:

# Installing Knative Serving in Air-Gapped Environments

This guide describes how to install Knative Serving with Kourier ingress in an air-gapped environment for use with NVIDIA Run:ai inference workloads.

## Prerequisites

- A connected host with internet access for downloading images and charts
- Access to a private container registry in your air-gapped environment
- `podman` or `docker` CLI
- `helm` CLI (v3.14+)
- `kubectl` CLI configured to access your air-gapped cluster
- Kubernetes cluster meeting [Run:ai system requirements](../system-requirements.md)

This guide uses version **1.18** as the reference.

## Files in this Directory

| File | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `pull-images.sh` | Script to pull and save Knative images (run on connected host) |
| `push-images.sh` | Script to load and push images to private registry (run in air-gapped environment) |
| `knative-serving.yaml` | KnativeServing CR configured for private registry |

---

## Step 1: Download Knative Helm Chart (Connected Host)

On a machine with internet access, download the Knative Operator Helm chart:

```bash
# Set the Knative version
export KNATIVE_VERSION=1.18.0

# Add the Knative Operator Helm repository
helm repo add knative-operator https://knative.github.io/operator
helm repo update

# Download the chart to a local directory
helm pull knative-operator/knative-operator --version ${KNATIVE_VERSION} --destination ./knative-charts/
```

This will create `./knative-charts/knative-operator-${KNATIVE_VERSION}.tgz`.

---

## Step 2: Pull and Save Images (Connected Host)

Use the provided script to pull all required images and save them as tar archives:

```bash
chmod +x pull-images.sh
./pull-images.sh
```

> **Note:** No login is required — all Knative images are publicly accessible.

See [pull-images.sh](./pull-images.sh) for the list of images.

---

## Step 3: Transfer Artifacts to Air-Gapped Environment

Transfer the following to your air-gapped environment:

1. `knative-charts/knative-operator-${KNATIVE_VERSION}.tgz` - Helm chart
2. `knative-images/knative-images.tar` - Container images
3. `push-images.sh` - Script to push images to private registry
4. `knative-serving.yaml` - KnativeServing CR

---

## Step 4: Load and Push Images to Private Registry

Edit `push-images.sh` to set your `PRIVATE_REGISTRY` URL.

> **Note:** The script assumes you are already logged in to your private registry. Log in before running:
> ```bash
> podman login <PRIVATE_REGISTRY>
> # or
> docker login <PRIVATE_REGISTRY>
> ```

Then run:

```bash
chmod +x push-images.sh
./push-images.sh
```

See [push-images.sh](./push-images.sh) for details.

---

## Step 5: Install Knative Operator with Private Registry

Create the `knative-operator` namespace:

```bash
kubectl create ns knative-operator
```

Create the image pull secret for the private registry:

```bash
kubectl create secret docker-registry knative-registry-creds \
    --namespace knative-operator \
    --docker-server=<PRIVATE_REGISTRY> \
    --docker-username=<your-username> \
    --docker-password=<your-password>
```

Install the Knative Operator using the downloaded Helm chart and override the image registry:

```bash
# Set your private registry
export PRIVATE_REGISTRY="your-private-registry.example.com"

# Set version
export KNATIVE_VERSION="1.18.0"

# Install Knative Operator
helm install knative-operator ./knative-charts/knative-operator-${KNATIVE_VERSION}.tgz \
    --namespace knative-operator \
    --set knative_operator.knative_operator.image=${PRIVATE_REGISTRY}/knative/operator \
    --set knative_operator.knative_operator.tag=v${KNATIVE_VERSION} \
    --set knative_operator.operator_webhook.image=${PRIVATE_REGISTRY}/knative/operator-webhook \
    --set knative_operator.operator_webhook.tag=v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
```

Immediately after installation, patch the ServiceAccounts to include the image pull secret:

```bash
for sa in default knative-operator operator-webhook; do
    kubectl patch serviceaccount ${sa} -n knative-operator \
        -p '{"imagePullSecrets": [{"name": "knative-registry-creds"}]}'
done
```

Restart deployments:

```bash
kubectl -n knative-operator rollout restart deploy
```

Verify the operator is running:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n knative-operator
```

---

## Step 6: Create KnativeServing with Private Registry

Create the `knative-serving` namespace:

```bash
kubectl create ns knative-serving
```

Create the image pull secret for the private registry:

```bash
kubectl create secret docker-registry knative-registry-creds \
    --namespace knative-serving \
    --docker-server=<PRIVATE_REGISTRY> \
    --docker-username=<your-username> \
    --docker-password=<your-password>
```

Edit `knative-serving.yaml` to replace `<PRIVATE_REGISTRY>` with your private registry URL, then apply:

```bash
kubectl apply -f knative-serving.yaml
```

Patch the ServiceAccounts to use the image pull secret (the CR setting doesn't propagate to pods):

```bash
# Patch all ServiceAccounts in knative-serving namespace
for sa in activator controller default net-kourier; do
    kubectl patch serviceaccount ${sa} -n knative-serving \
        -p '{"imagePullSecrets": [{"name": "knative-registry-creds"}]}'
done
```

Restart the deployments to pick up the changes:

```bash
kubectl rollout restart deployment -n knative-serving
```

---

## Step 7: Verify Installation

Check that all Knative Serving pods are running:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n knative-serving
```

Expected output (all pods should be `Running`):

```
NAME                                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
activator-xxxxxxxxxx-xxxxx                1/1     Running   0          2m
autoscaler-xxxxxxxxxx-xxxxx               1/1     Running   0          2m
controller-xxxxxxxxxx-xxxxx               1/1     Running   0          2m
net-kourier-controller-xxxxxxxxxx-xxxxx   1/1     Running   0          2m
webhook-xxxxxxxxxx-xxxxx                  1/1     Running   0          2m
3scale-kourier-gateway-xxxxxxxxxx-xxxxx   1/1     Running   0          2m
```

Verify Kourier service:

```bash
kubectl get svc -n knative-serving kourier
```

---

## Image Reference

Knative Serving requires the following container images. Replace `${KNATIVE_VERSION}` with your target version (e.g., `1.18.0`):

Knative Operator Images
> **Note:** The operator webhook (`operator/cmd/webhook`) is different from the serving webhook (`serving/cmd/webhook`). Push the operator webhook to a separate path like `knative/operator-webhook` to avoid conflicts.
```bash
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/operator/cmd/operator:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/operator/cmd/webhook:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
```

Knative Serving Core Images
```bash
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/serving/cmd/activator:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/serving/cmd/autoscaler:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/serving/cmd/controller:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/serving/cmd/webhook:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/serving/cmd/queue:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
```

Kourier Ingress Images
```bash
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/net-kourier/cmd/kourier:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy:v1.34-latest
```

Post-Install Job Images
```bash
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/pkg/apiextensions/storageversion/cmd/migrate:latest
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/serving/pkg/cleanup/cmd/cleanup:latest
```

HPA Autoscaler Images (for custom metrics)
```bash
gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/serving/cmd/autoscaler-hpa:v${KNATIVE_VERSION}
```
